Hello! This is my lab 2! It is a map on population density and Airbnb listings in Vancouver.

Link to the map:https://ubc-geob472-spring2021.github.io/JiayuanGu-web/Jiayuan_Lab2/Lab2(1).html

Reflective Analysis:

I designed this map for people who are interested in Airbnb listings in Vancouver and are probably visiting Vancouver for the first time and do not know much about Vancouver. If they want to book Airbnbs for their stay in Vancouver, they can get a sense of the local area that the listings are in. My map attempts to address the locations of the Airbnb listings and population density of the area. Therefore, my map combined three datasets together in order to provide more insight to the map. The base map is a choropleth map that demonstrates population density in Metro Vancouver by census tract. I choose this dataset because I want to show which parts or neighbourhoods of the cities in Metro Vancouver has the highest or lowest population density, not the cities that has the highest or lowest population density. I downloaded the population density data through CHASS and the census tract boundary on the Statistics Canada website. First, I used ArcMap to join them together as a shapefile. Then, I used QGIS to convert the shapefile into a GeoJSON file. In terms of color choice, I tried out a few color combinations that are available on color brewer. I ended up using a yellow/orange/red combination because of its color contrast. The more populated areas are in red while the less populated areas are in yellow. This allows map users to identify areas of different population density with ease. The housing icons showing the Airbnb listings are on top of the choropleth map. I choose this dataset because it contains the latitude and longitude coordinates of the Airbnb listings and details such as name and price. I downloaded this dataset from a website called Inside Airbnbs. I use blue house-shaped icons to represent Airbnb listings because the color blue stands out from the color of the base map and the house-shape is related to the idea of bed and breakfast. Moreover, there is another layer that shows the urban centres of cities in Metro Vancouver. I downloaded this layer from the Metro Vancouver Open Data Catalogue. I add this layer to my map to provide more insight to the choropleth map on population density and to allow map users to visualize which Airbnb listings are in or close to urban centres. The more populated areas are often the urban centres.
My map has two kinds of interactivity, one through mouse move and the other through mouse click. The choropleth map can be explored through mouse move. When the mouse moves to a particular census tract, the name of the census tract and the corresponding population density will appear on the information window. Census tracts are relatively small areas and there are quite a few of them on my map. Without interactivity, it can be very time-consuming and almost impossible to figure out the exact population density (only the range shown in the legend) in each of the census tracts. Therefore, incorporate interactivity allows map readers to find out the exact population density in every single census tract with ease. Another interactivity on my map are popups that can be accessed through mouse click. Each house-shaped icon represents one Airbnb listings. When clicking on the blue house-shaped icons, the name and price of the Airbnb listings will show through popups. Incorporate interactivity here provides more details to the Airbnb listings and makes this map more useful to people who wants to know the Airbnb listings that are available. 
I think my map can be improved a lot if I have access to Airbnb listing data to other cities in Metro Vancouver. Unfortunately, I am unable to find relevant datasets. Overall, I think my map is somewhat successful in terms of providing information on Airbnb listings for people who do not know much about Vancouver. Not only does my map shows the listings, it also provides detailed information on population density and outlines urban centres. This helps people booking Airbnbs to choose where they want to live during their stay in Vancouver.


Collaborations and reliance on other resources:

I have been able to find data on Airbnb listings in the City of Vancouver but not the other cities in Metro Vancouver. In terms of coding resources, I used the Mapbox tutorial on making an interactive choropleth map. I also looked at another Mapbox example of adding filter to point features, but I couldn’t figure it out on my own map.



